# Physical quantity

**Physical quantity** is a quantity that can be measured and consists of a magnitude and unit. 

**Base quantities** are the quantities on the basis of whic other quantities are expressed. 

**Derived quantities** are the quantities that are expressed in terms of base quantities. 

A derived quantity has an equation which links to other quantities (e.g. $F=ma$). 

length, mass, time, current, temperature, amount of substance and luminous intensity

SI units: s,m,kg,A,K,mol,cd

T G M k m 
tera giga mega kilo
milli micro nano pico

# Homogeneity of an equation

An equation is **homogeneous** if quantities on BOTH sides of the equation has the same unit. 

A homogeneous equation may not be physically correct, but a physically correct equation will always be homogeneous.

The speed $v$ of a liquid leaving a tube depends on the change in pressure $\Delta P$ and the density $\rho$ of the liquid. The speed is given by the equation

$$
v = k(\frac{\Delta P}{\rho})^n
$$

Where k is a constant that has no units

What is the value of n?

For AS: $g = 9.81ms^{-2}$

# Significant figures

digits considered significant: non-zero digits, zeros who:

appearing anywhere between two non-zero digits

trailing zeros in a number containing a decimal point

digits considered not significant: leading zeros, trailing zeros in a number without a decimal point

# Estimations

atmospheric pressure 1e5

light takes 5e2 s to reach us from the Sun

frequency of uv light: 7.5e14 to 3e16 Hz

life-span of a man: 2e9 s

看savemyexams

# Measurements

## Length

measuring tape(long), metre rule(short)

cm, cm, mm

Meter rule: 0, 100, 1

**vernier caliper**(游标卡尺): 0,15,0.02

main scale + vernier scale

**micrometer screw gauge**: 0, 2.5, 0.01

main scale(0.5) + fractional scale(0.01)

Check zero

Repeat & Average

Avoid parallax error

## Mass

balance

# Error

Random errors:

- occur in all measurements

- unpredictable

- can be reduced by average

Systematic errors:

- not random but constant

- consistently underestimate or overestimate a reading

- can be eliminated

Zero Error

Parallax Error

**

**Precision** is the degree of exactness to which a measurement can be reproduced. 

- affected by random error

- improve: repeat and average

**Accuracy** describes how well the result agrees with an accepted value. 

- affected by systematic error

- improve: technique, accurate instrument
